---
short_title: "WUD Film x Data Science Institute Presents: The Thinking Game (2024), [CHTC will be tabling]"
title: "WUD Film x Data Science Institute Presents: The Thinking Game (2024), [CHTC will be tabling]"
published: true

excerpt: |
  In a collaboration between the Data Science Institute and WUD Film, join us for a public screening of the documentary, The Thinking Game (2024) on Thursday, December 5th from 6:30 - 8:30 pm. There will be a panel discussion afterwards and tabling from CHTC.

start_date: 2024-12-05
end_date: 2024-12-05
location: "Union South, The Marquee Theater"
image: "/images/events/thinking_game.png"
header_image: "/images/events/thinking_game.png"
---

{% capture main %}

In a collaboration between the Data Science Institute and WUD Film, join us for a public screening of the documentary, The Thinking Game (2024). The film chronicles scientist Demis Hassabis’s founding DeepMind and the journey of AI breakthroughs like AlphaGo (the board game) and AlphaFold (protein folding and this year's Chemistry Nobel Prize). Following the film, there will be a panel discussion with UW researchers Hannah Wayment-Steele and Tony Gitter (who leads the CHTC GPU lab).

The screening will also be accompanied by a selection of tables and booths from various organizations that engage with, use, and innovate AI. The Center for High Throughput Computing (CHTC) will be in attendance as well with a booth on GPUs (Graphics Processing Units) as they are used here in labs for training models rather than their more traditional role in video games. [CHTC, established in 2006, aims to bring the power of High Throughput Computing (HTC) to all fields of research, and to allow the future of HTC to be shaped by insight from all fields.]

**See the trailer for the film, [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=utDDwu6zfTc&ab_channel=TheThinkingGameFilm). More details from WUD Film, [here](https://union.wisc.edu/events-and-activities/event-calendar/event/wud-film-presents-the-thinking-game-2024/).**

{% endcapture %}

{% capture subsection %}
{: .mt-0 }

### Who

-   Public Screening for UW-Madison students, faculty, staff, Wisconsin Union members and their guests.
-   Presented by [WUD Film](https://union.wisc.edu/get-involved/wud/film/) and Wisconsin [The Institute for Data Science](https://dsi.wisc.edu/).
-   Tabling from the [Center for High Throughput Computing](https://chtc.cs.wisc.edu/)


### When

-   Thursday, December 5. 6:30 - 8:30 pm.

### Where

-   In Person
-   Union South, The Marquee Theater
-   No Cost


### Questions?

Contact [film@union.wisc.edu](mailto:film@union.wisc.edu), or call 608-262-1143

{% endcapture %}

{% capture endblock %}


{% endcapture %}

{% include event/event-page.html %}
