---
short_title: "Save The Date: 2024 European HTCondor Workshop" 
title: "Registration is open for the European HTCondor Workshop, September 24-27"

layout: events
published: true

excerpt: |
    This workshop is an excellent opportunity to learn about HTCondor in the beautiful Amsterdam. 
start_date: 2024-09-24
end_date: 2024-09-27
location: "NIKHEF-Amsterdam. Amsterdam, Netherlands"
image: "/images/events/HTCondorEurope.jpeg"
header_image: "/images/events/HTCondorEurope.jpeg"
---

{% capture main %}

This year’s European HTCondor Workshop will be held from September 24 to 27th hosted by NIKHEF-Amsterdam, the Dutch 
National Institute for Subatomic Physics, in the beautiful Dutch capital city of Amsterdam.

The workshop will be an excellent occasion for learning from the sources (the developers!) about HTCondor, exchanging 
with your colleagues about experiences and plans and providing your feedback to the experts. The HTCondor Compute Entry 
point (CE) will be covered as well. Participation is open to all organizations (including companies) and persons interested
in HTCondor (and by no means restricted to particle physics and/or academia!) If you know potentially interested persons, 
don't hesitate to make them aware of this opportunity.

The workshop will cover both using and administering HTCondor; topics will be chosen to best match participants' interests. 
We would very much like to know about your use of HTCondor, in your project, your experience and your plans. You are warmly
encouraged to propose a short presentation.

There will also time and space for short, maybe spontaneous interactive participation ("show us your toolbox sessions") 
which proved to be very popular in previous meetings. 

Registration is now open! Find more information on the [event page.](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1386170/) 

To ease travel, the workshop will begin Tuesday morning and end around Friday lunchtime. 

Want more information? Sign up to be on the HTCondor-World [mailing list.](https://lists.cs.wisc.edu/mailman/listinfo/htcondor-world) Email us at [HTCondor-world@cs.wisc.edu](HTCondor-world@cs.wisc.edu) for further questions

{% endcapture %}

{% capture subsection %}

## When

September 24-27, 2024

## Where

NIKHEF-Amsterdam. Amsterdam, Netherlands

## Registration

Registration for this workshop is open! Register [here!](https://indico.cern.ch/event/1386170/) 
{% endcapture %}

{% capture endblock %}

{% endcapture %}

{% include event/event-page.html %}
