---
short_title: OSG School 2024
title: "OSG School 2024"
layout: events
published: true
excerpt: |
    Applications for the OSG School 2024 at the University of Wisconsin-Madison are now open!
start_date: 2024-08-5
end_date: 2024-08-9
location: "University of Wisconsin-Madison"
link: "https://osg-htc.org/school-2024/"
image: "/images/events/osg-school-2024-event.jpg"
header_image: "/images/events/osg-school-2024-event.jpg"
---

{% capture main %}

**Is limited computing capacity holding back your science?** 

Applications for the OSG School are now open!

The OSG School provides researchers the opportunity to learn how to use high-throughput computing (HTC) systems to run large-scale computing applications at their campus or using the national-scale [Open Science Pool](https://osg-htc.org/services/open_scienc_Pool.html) – to run large-scale computing applications that are at the heart of today's cutting-edge science.

The school is ideal for:

* Researchers (especially graduate students and post-docs) in any research area for which large-scale computing is a vital part of the research process;

* Anyone (especially students and staff) who supports researchers who are current or potential users of high-throughput computing;

* Instructors (at the post-secondary level) who teach future researchers and see value in integrating high-throughput computing into their curriculum.

People accepted to this program will receive financial support for basic travel and local costs associated with the School.
  
To learn more about the event, check out this article [that features 2023 School students and their motiviations for attending.](https://chtc.cs.wisc.edu/OSG-School.html)

[View complete details and access the School application](https://osg-htc.org/school-2024)


{% endcapture %}


{% capture subsection %}
### Dates

August 5–9, 2024

### Who

Researchers (especially graduate students and post-docs), students and staff who supports researchers currently or are potential users of HTC, and instructors at the post-secondary level who want to integrate HTC into their curriculum.
 
### Where

The University of Wisconsin-Madison.

### Application and Deadlines
Details about the application process can be found on the [OSG School 2024 site](https://osg-htc.org/school-2024).

The deadline for applications is Monday, April 1, 2024.

### Contact Us

If you have any questions about the event, email us at [school@osg-htc.org](mailto:school@osg-htc.org)
{% endcapture %}

{% capture endblock %}


{% endcapture %}

{% include event/event-page.html %}
