---
short_title: OSG School 2025
title: "OSG School 2025"
layout: events
published: true
excerpt: |
    Applications for the OSG School 2025 at the University of Wisconsin-Madison are now open!
start_date: 2025-06-23
end_date: 2025-06-27
location: "University of Wisconsin-Madison"
link: "https://osg-htc.org/school-2025/"
image: "/images/events/osg-school-2024-event.jpg"
header_image: "/images/events/osg-school-2024-event.jpg"
---

{% capture main %}

**Could you transform your research with vast amounts of computing?**

Learn how this summer at the lovely University of Wisconsin–Madison.

During the School — June 23–27 — you will learn to use high-throughput computing (HTC) systems, at your own campus or using the national-scale Open Science Pool, to run large-scale computing applications that are at the heart of today’s cutting-edge science.

Through lectures, discussions, and lots of hands-on activities with experienced OSG staff, you will learn how HTC systems work, how to run and manage long lists of computing tasks and work with huge datasets to implement a scientific computing workflow, and where to turn for more information and help.

The School is ideal for:

* Researchers (especially graduate students and post-docs) in any research area for which large-scale computing is a vital part of the research process;

* Anyone (especially students and staff) who supports researchers who are current or potential users of high-throughput computing;

* Instructors (at the post-secondary level) who teach future researchers and see value in integrating high-throughput computing into their curriculum.

People accepted to this program will receive financial support for basic travel and local costs associated with the School.

<div class="d-flex mb-3">
    <div class="p-3 m-auto">
        <a class="btn btn-primary" href="https://osg-htc.org/school-2025">Apply now!</a>
    </div>
</div>


{% endcapture %}


{% capture subsection %}
### Dates

June 23-27, 2025

### Who

Researchers (especially graduate students and post-docs), students and staff who supports researchers currently or are potential users of HTC, and instructors at the post-secondary level who want to integrate HTC into their curriculum.
 
### Where

The University of Wisconsin-Madison.

### Application and Deadlines
Details about the application process can be found on the [OSG School 2025 site](https://osg-htc.org/school-2025).

The deadline for applications is Friday, March 7, 2025.

### Contact Us

If you have any questions about the event, email us at [school@osg-htc.org](mailto:school@osg-htc.org)
{% endcapture %}

{% capture endblock %}


{% endcapture %}

{% include event/event-page.html %}
